Graphics and Graphic Displays Articles (#178)
xodio/xod-docs: docs/guide/graphics-library/README.md

![Triangle solid](./triangle-solid-node.png)

![Triangle solid at screen](./triangles-solid.gif)

### Text

You can display various text strings on the screen. 

Currently, the only supported text font is one that is used in the firmware of sign-generating displays. This font has a dimension of 5x7 pixels.

The text string is set on canvas by the start point (`X`, `Y`), which is the upper-left vertex of the first character in a string.

![Text](./text.png)

To define the text string the `text` and `text-colored` nodes are used.

![Text](./text-node.png)

The `text` node displays a [String](/docs/reference/data-types/#string-literals) specified at the `S` pin with the default foreground color of the scene.

Using the `text-colored` node you can set a string of any color.

Text can be scaled using the `SCL` pin.  A simple pixel-based magnification algorithm is used, so the value should be an integer greater or equal to 1. The resulting text is scaled N times, where N is the value specified at the `SCL` pin.

![Text at screen](./texts.gif)

### Images

You can display bitmap images and icons on the display screen.

> Read more in the [loading images](/docs/guide/graphics-images) article.

Reviewer: I feel like there should be a conclusion section. Something like that:

- Any graphics begins with the `canvas` node
- Any graphics on the canvas positioned relative to the parent canvas coordinate system
- The library provides nodes to draw points, lines, rectangles, triangles, circles, texts, and images.
- Everything that is out of canvas bounds is not rendered
- At the end of a graphic tree should be a `render` node with bound `device` to render it.

> Read more in the [loading images](/docs/guide/graphics-images) article.

Reviewer: Also, the section about rendering and display devices is missing here... It might contain links to extended articles about ST7735 and SSD1306.

---
title: Graphics library
version: 1.0.0
image: ./graphics-library.jpg
---

# Overview

> The [`xod/graphics`](https://xod.io/libs/xod/graphics) library provides a standard set of nodes to create graphics and graphic interfaces. This library describes various geometric and graphical objects and contains their rasterization and rendering methods, which are required for subsequent display on the LCDs and OLEDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`xod/graphics`](https://xod.io/libs/xod/graphics) library provides the standard set of nodes to create graphics and graphic interfaces. This library describes various geometric and graphical objects and contains their rasterization and rendering methods, which are required for their further presentation on displays such as LCDs and OLEDs.

```

> The `graphics` library only can build images and has to be used with the particular display library to show it on the screen correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `graphics` library only can build images and has to be used with a particular display library to show it on the screen.

```

## Coordinate system and units

> A digital picture consists of pixels. A pixel is the smallest logical element of an image in raster graphics, as well as a physical element of the display matrix. Pixel is a two-dimensional element. It has two coordinates (X, Y) in a two-dimensional coordinate system. Traditionally, the origin (0, 0) of the coordinate system for an image or graphic display is at the top-left corner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A digital image consists of pixels. A pixel is the smallest logical element of an image in raster graphics, as well as a physical element of the display matrix. Pixel is a two-dimensional element. It has two coordinates (X, Y) in a two-dimensional coordinate system. Traditionally, the origin (0, 0) of the coordinate system for an image or graphic display is at the top-left corner.
```

See https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/23716/whats-the-difference-between-a-picture-and-an-image

> ![Coordinate system](./coordinate-system.png)

Reviewer 2: Nice image! A source file is required in the repo though for a scenario where an adjustment would be required.

The same applies to other illustrations below.

> Pixel coordinates are integer values. In XOD, pixel coordinate values are the [Number](/docs/reference/data-types/#number-literals) type i.e., floating-point values are rounded down to integers. For example, a pixel specified as (5.89, 2.02) is displayed on the screen at (5, 2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pixel coordinates are integer values. In XOD, pixel coordinate values have the [Number](/docs/reference/data-types/#number-literals) type. Floating-point values are truncated down to integers. For example, a pixel specified as (5.89, 2.02) is displayed on the screen at (5, 2).
```

> In addition to coordinates, each pixel has its color. In XOD the color of a pixel is set by the [Color](/docs/reference/data-types/#color-literals) type value i.e. by 3 bytes, one for each component R, G, and B. This color type has a color depth named [true color](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_depth#True_color_(24-bit)) and has a palette of 16,777,216 colors. However, not every display can handle so many color variations. For example, the [ST7735 display](/docs/guide/st7735-display/) operates the [high color](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_color) color depth with the palette of 65,536 colors, while the [SSD1306 display](/docs/guide/ssd1306-display/) is monochrome and operates only with black and white color. In XOD, the pixel color is automatically reduced to the acceptable resolution for a particular display.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to coordinates, each pixel has its color. In XOD the color of a pixel is set by the [Color](/docs/reference/data-types/#color-literals) type value stored as 24 bits, one for each component R, G, and B. This color type has a color depth named [True color](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_depth#True_color_(24-bit)) and has a palette of 2²⁴ = 16,777,216 colors. However, not every display can handle so many color variations. For example, the [ST7735 display](/docs/guide/st7735-display/) operates the [High color](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_color) color depth with the palette of 65,536 colors, while the [SSD1306 display](/docs/guide/ssd1306-display/) is monochrome and operates only with black and white color. In XOD, the pixel color is automatically reduced to the acceptable resolution for a particular display.
```

## Canvas

The building process of any scene begins with the `canvas` node. It is the entry point and the first object in the tree of graphic elements of the scene.
Physically `canvas` defines a specific area on the screen that is subjected to the rendering process.

![Canvas node](./canvas-node.png)

Сanvas has a rectangular shape. It is defined by the pivot point (`X`, `Y`), which is its upper-left vertex, width `W` , and height `H` in pixels. 
The pivot point of the canvas is a specific pixel on the matrix of a display and its coordinates are related to the display matrix coordinate system.

![Canvas coordinate system](./canvas-coordinate-system.png)

Canvas can take up the entire display matrix or be a part of it. The display matrix may contain several `canvas` at the same time.

> When initialized, the canvas creates a new coordinate system within itself. This new system is used to position all subsequent graphic elements in a tree of a scene.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When initialized, the canvas creates a new coordinate system within itself. This new system is used to position all child graphic elements in a tree of the scene.
```

<div class="ui segment note">
<span class="ui ribbon label">Note</span>

> In XOD, the position of any graphic element is determined by its coordinates on the canvas and not the screen!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In XOD, the position of any graphic element is determined by its coordinates relative to the canvas and not the screen!

```

</div>

> A value at the `BG` pin of the `canvas` node sets the background color for all pixels in the selected area of the screen. The `FG` pin value sets the foreground color of the scene. This color is the default for all subsequent graphic elements located on the canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A value at the `BG` pin of the `canvas` node sets the background color for all pixels in the selected area of the screen. The `FG` pin value sets the foreground color of the scene. This color is the default for all child graphic elements located on the canvas.
```

## Scene as a tree

> The image scene is a tree of various graphic elements (geometric objects, text, bitmap images, and icons) that lie on a `canvas`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image scene is a tree of various graphic elements (geometric objects, text, bitmap images, and icons) that reside on a `canvas`.
```

![Tree](./tree.png)

> A tree can have no elements or be strictly sequential or expand and form new branches. The order in which the elements of the graphical tree are located determines the order in which these elements are displayed on the screen. Amongst themselves, tree elements link through the `GFX` node pins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tree may have no elements, be strictly linear, or expand and form new branches. The order in which the elements of the graphical tree are located determines the order in which these elements are displayed on the screen. Amongst themselves, tree elements link through the `GFX` node pins.
```

To show the image on the screen of the device, it should be rendered. For this, the `render` node is used. The rendering process is different for each specific display device so in XOD, each display library contains its own `render` node. 

![Render node](./render-node.png)

The `render` node is a kind of "end of the tree branch". On a `pulse` signal this node processes one branch of the graphic tree for a given `canvas` and displays the resulting image on the screen.

![Tree render](./tree-render.png)

Each branch of the tree can be rendered independently of other branches. A single tree branch can be linked to multiple `render` nodes to be displayed on different devices.

## Graphic elements

Each graphic element has its node. Graphical elements in XOD are dynamic; i.e., they can change all their properties in real-time.

> ## Geometric objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Without this heading, the structure is more straightforward: no sections with empty own content, no synthetic classification.

### Point

It is the most basic graphic element. Point is set on canvas by coordinates (`X`, `Y`).

![Point](./point.png)

The `point` node describes a point with a thickness of 1 pixel and the default foreground color of the scene.
You can set any color for a point using the `point-colored` node.

![Point node](./point-node.png)

> ТОЧКА БУДЕТ БОЛЬШЕ

Reviewer 2: Да будет так. TODO

The `circle-solid` node describes a circle filled with a solid default foreground color of the scene.
You can fill a circle with any color using the `circle-solid-colored` node.

![Circle solid](./circle-solid-node.png)

![Circle solid at screen](./circles-solid.gif)

### Triangle

The triangle is set on canvas by three points (`X0`, `Y0`), (`X1`, `Y1`), and (`X2`, `Y2`). The order of points can be any.

![Triangle](./triangle.png)

A triangle can be filled in with a solid color or represent an unfilled triangle frame.
Filled and non-filled triangles have different sets of nodes.

The `triangle-outline` node describes a triangle frame with a thickness of 1 pixel and the default foreground color of the scene.
You can set any color for a frame using the `triangle-outline-colored` node.

![Triangle outline](./triangle-outline-node.png)

![Triangle at screen](./triangles.gif)

The `triangle-solid` node describes a triangle filled with a solid default foreground color of the scene.
You can fill a triangle with any color using the `triangle-solid-colored` node.

![Triangle solid](./triangle-solid-node.png)

![Triangle solid at screen](./triangles-solid.gif)

> ## Text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Text
```

---
title: Graphics library
version: 1.0.0
image: ./graphics-library.jpg
---

# Overview

The [`xod/graphics`](https://xod.io/libs/xod/graphics) library provides a standard set of nodes to create graphics and graphic interfaces. This library describes various geometric and graphical objects and contains their rasterization and rendering methods, which are required for subsequent display on LCDs or OLEDs.

> The `graphics` is responsible for building the scene of the image and it should work in conjunction with the display library. To display the finished image on the screen of a particular display, you should use the XOD library of this display.

Author: The "graphics" library is useless without the "device" library.  For example,  "graphics" + "ssd1306". Graphics creates a graphic tree while the device lib renders and shows it.

> The `graphics` is responsible for building the scene of the image and it should work in conjunction with the display library. To display the finished image on the screen of a particular display, you should use the XOD library of this display.

Reviewer 3: 11
The `graphics` library only can build images and has to be used with the particular display library to show it on the screen correctly.

> The `graphics` is responsible for building the scene of the image and it should work in conjunction with the display library. To display the finished image on the screen of a particular display, you should use the XOD library of this display.

Reviewer 3: instead of whole line 11

You can set any color for a frame using the `triangle-outline-colored` node.

![Triangle outline](./triangle-outline-node.png)

![Triangle at screen](./triangles.gif)

The `triangle-solid` node describes a triangle filled with a solid default foreground color of the scene.
You can set any fill color for a triangle using the `triangle-solid-colored` node.

![Triangle solid](./triangle-solid-node.png)

![Triangle solid at screen](./triangles-solid.gif)

## Text

You can display various text strings on the screen. 

Currently, the only font supported for the drawing a text is the same that is used in the firmware of sign-generating displays. This font has a dimension of 5x7 pixels.

The text string is set on canvas by the start point, which is the upper-left vertex of the first character in a string.

![Text](./text.png)

To define the text string the `text` and `text-colored` nodes are used. 

![Text](./text-node.png)

The `text` node displays a [String](/docs/reference/data-types/#string-literals) specified at the `S` pin with the default foreground color of the scene.

By the `text-colored` node you can set a string of any color.

> Text can be scaled using the `SCL` pin.  A simple pixel-based magnification algorithm is used, so the value should be an integer greater or equal to 1. The resulting text is scaled N times, where N is the value specified at the `SCL` pin.

Author: Pin names in the documentation are associated with the pin names of the nodes in XOD. Nodes responsible for the text have already been approved and merged. Changing the documentation requires changing the pin naming in XOD.

Is the I2C analogy so important? I think that "scale" or "prescale" are standard terms in computer graphs. Here there isn't a word about the data transfer I2C interface. Also, working with I2C in XOD, there is no SCL pin. A user only has the I2C pin of the type that is ready to use. What do you think?

> Text can be scaled using the `SCL` pin.  A simple pixel-based magnification algorithm is used, so the value should be an integer greater or equal to 1. The resulting text is scaled N times, where N is the value specified at the `SCL` pin.

Reviewer 3: I think it is smth that XOD developers could resolve. IMHO, if I2C is used to connect various displays SCL pin for Scale may be confusing.
